Q: Does propofol or sevoflurane anaesthesia affect hepatic integrity as assessed by the M30 & M65 cell death markers & liver enzymes?\nA: No. Rationale: Under the present study design propofol or sevoflurane anaesthesia did not induce apoptosis or affected the liver function as assessed by the.
Q: Do nurses ' involvement in end-of-life care of patients after a resuscitate decision on general medical units in Saudi Arabia?\nA: No. Rationale: The findings affirm that nurses working on medical units continue to maintain a constant level of care for patients and families after.
Q: Is gait recovery associated with changes in the temporal patterning of muscle activity during treadmill walking in patients with post-stroke hemiparesis?\nA: No. Rationale: Normalization of the temporal patterning of gait related muscle activity in the lower extremities is not a prerequisite for functional recovery of.
Q: Does obesity increase morbidity of laparoscopic cholecystectomy?\nA: No. Rationale: This study demonstrates that overall conversion rates and surgical morbidity are relatively low following LC, even in obese and morbidly obese patients.
Q: Do small dead space heat and moisture exchangers impede gas exchange during noninvasive ventilation : a comparison with a heated humidifier?\nA: No. Rationale: If one decides to humidify patients' airways during NIV, one may do so with small dead space HME or HH without altering.
Q: Is a plasma glucose concentration below 2.5 mmol L-1 an appropriate criterion to end the 72-h fast?\nA: No. Rationale: Terminating the fast at plasma glucose levels </=2.5 mmol L-1 does not allow confirmation or exclusion of an insulin-secreting tumour.
Q: Does macrosomia predict overweight in late adolescence in infants of diabetic mothers?\nA: No. Rationale: The risk of adolescent overweight was significantly increased among macrosomic infants, although this trend did not reach statistical significance in the smaller.
Q: Does repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation influence immunological HL-60 cells and neuronal PC12 cells?\nA: No. Rationale: In two mammalian cell lines rTMS treatment in a variety of exposure conditions does not influence any of the measured parameters.
Q: Does dexmedetomidine improve patient satisfaction when compared with propofol during mechanical ventilation?\nA: No. Rationale: Despite theoretical advantages of DEX to improve overall patient satisfaction, the two agents provide similar responses to amnesia and pain control.
Q: Does blood flow limit peritoneal transport?\nA: No. Rationale: Because the liver makes up a small part of the peritoneal area, we conclude that large drops in blood flow do not.
Q: Does chronic peripheral hyperinsulinemia in type 1 diabetic patients after successful combined pancreas-kidney transplantation affect ectopic lipid accumulation in skeletal muscle and liver?\nA: No. Rationale: Despite fasting peripheral hyperinsulinemia because of systemic venous drainage, type 1 diabetic patients after PKT show similar IHCL, IMCL, insulin sensitivity, and.
Q: Does oral citrulline affect whole body protein metabolism in healthy human volunteers : results of a prospective , randomized , double-blind , cross-over study?\nA: No. Rationale: In healthy, well nourished volunteers, oral citrulline increases plasma citrulline and arginine availability but does not affect whole-body protein kinetics in the.
Q: Is perioperative cardiac evaluation of simulated patients by practicing anesthesiologists consistent with 2007 ACC/AHA guidelines?\nA: No. Rationale: When evaluating simulated patients, practicing anesthesiologists who are ASA members did not recommend preoperative evaluations that were consistent with the 2007 ACC/AHA.
Q: Is cardiovascular evaluation necessary prior to and during beta-blocker therapy for infantile hemangiomas?\nA: No. Rationale: Pretreatment ECG is of limited value for patients with an unremarkable cardiovascular history and a normal heart rate and blood pressure.
Q: Does cyclosporine-inhibitable cerebral drug transport influence clinical methadone pharmacodynamics?\nA: No. Rationale: Cyclosporine did not affect methadone pharmacodynamics.
Q: Are substantial intergenerational increases in body mass index explained by the fetal overnutrition hypothesis : the Cardiovascular Risk in Young Finns Study?\nA: No. Rationale: Because offspring share all genes with their parents, the observed substantially higher adult BMI for offspring than for parents is likely explained.
Q: Does anaesthesia with sevoflurane in children : nitrous oxide increase postoperative vomiting?\nA: No. Rationale: Nitrous oxide used in combination with sevoflurane is not associated with an increase in the incidence of emesis in children who undergo.
Q: Is brain penetration of the OAB drug trospium chloride increased in aged mice?\nA: No. Rationale: Based on our in vivo data in a mouse model, we conclude that trospium chloride permeation across the BBB is not increased.
Q: Is the rate of dislocation increased when minimal precautions are used after total hip arthroplasty using the posterolateral approach : a prospective , comparative safety study?\nA: No. Rationale: For experienced surgeons using the posterolateral approach at THA and femoral heads of diameter ≥ 28 mm, it appears safe to manage.
Q: Does cOU254 , a specific 3-carboxamide-coumarin inhibitor of coagulation factor XII , protect mice from acute ischemic stroke?\nA: No. Rationale: COU254 at the given concentration of 40 mg/kg failed to demonstrate efficacy in acute ischemic stroke in this preliminary study.
Q: Is bacteriological study in perianal abscess useful and not cost-effective?\nA: No. Rationale: Bacteriological culture in perianal abscess is not useful for predicting the development of anal fistula or abscess recurrence.
Q: Does progesterone prevent preterm births in women with twins?\nA: No. Rationale: Amongst this group of twin gestations weekly 17HP injections did not reduce the incidence of preterm birth or the complications associated with.
Q: Are strain-dependent proliferation in response to human gastric mucin and adhesion properties of Helicobacter pylori affected by co-isolated Lactobacillus sp?\nA: No. Rationale: The presence of lactobacilli in the stomach did not select for different mucin binding properties of H.
Q: Is agreement between preoperative core needle biopsy and postoperative invasive breast cancer histopathology dependent on the amount of clinical material obtained?\nA: No. Rationale: Neither tumour type and grade, nor the individual components used to calculate grade agreed consistently between the CNB and surgical specimen.
Q: Are a multicentre RCT on community occupational therapy in Alzheimer 's disease : 10 sessions better than one consultation?\nA: No. Rationale: In German healthcare, a Dutch 10-session community occupational therapy was not better than a one-session consultation for the daily functioning of patients.
Q: Is fas receptor present on ejaculated human sperm?\nA: No. Rationale: There is no detectable quantity of Fas on human ejaculated sperm.
Q: Is relaxin related to symptom-giving pelvic girdle relaxation in pregnant women?\nA: No. Rationale: The present results do not suggest an important role for relaxin in symptom-giving pelvic girdle relaxation during human pregnancy.
Q: Do previous intrapleural procedures adversely affect lung transplantation?\nA: No. Rationale: A previous intrapleural procedure, even when resulting in a fused pleural space, did not have a significant detrimental impact on outcome.
Q: Does treatment of localized periodontal disease in pregnancy reduce the occurrence of preterm birth : results from the Periodontal Infections and Prematurity Study ( PIPS )?\nA: No. Rationale: Treating periodontal disease does not reduce the incidence of SPTD.
Q: Do polymorphisms Associated with Increased Cardiovascular Risk in the General Population Predict Acute Events in Hemodialysis Patients?\nA: No. Rationale: In HP, the traditional genetic risk factors for cardiovascular disease are not able to predict acute cardiac events, peripheral vascular events, and.
Q: Does adequate intake of potassium cause hyperkalemia in hypertensive individuals taking medications that antagonize the renin angiotensin aldosterone system?\nA: No. Rationale: This study demonstrates that an increase in dietary potassium over a 4-wk period is safe in hypertensive subjects who have normal renal.
Q: Is angina intensity different in diabetic and non-diabetic patients with acute myocardial infarction?\nA: No. Rationale: Apart from a higher frequency of severe dyspnea in diabetics, there appears to be no difference in the clinical symptoms of AMI.
Q: Does prophylaxis with GM-CSF mouthwashes reduce frequency and duration of severe oral mucositis in patients with solid tumors undergoing high-dose chemotherapy with autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation rescue : a double blind , randomized , placebo-controlled study?\nA: No. Rationale: We did not find any evidence to indicate that prophylaxis with GM-CSF mouthwash can help to reduce the severity of mucositis in.
Q: Is tumor Budding Detection by Immunohistochemical Staining Superior to Hematoxylin and Eosin Staining for Predicting Lymph Node Metastasis in pT1 Colorectal Cancer?\nA: No. Rationale: This study was limited by potential selection bias because surgically resected specimens were collected instead of endoscopically resected specimens.
Q: Medical student education in emergency medicine: do students meet the national standards for clinical encounters of selected core conditions?\nA: No. Rationale: Most students do not encounter all 10 conditions during patient encounters throughout a 4-week EM rotation, although most have exposure to at.
Q: Is the apolipoprotein E epsilon4 allele associated with cognitive dysfunction in cardiac surgery?\nA: No. Rationale: Preexisting cognitive impairment and postoperative cognitive dysfunction are not associated with APOE epsilon4 genotype, suggesting that cognitive impairment both before and after.
Q: Does the pathogen of ventilator-associated pneumonia influence the mortality rate of surgical intensive care unit patients treated with a rotational antibiotic system?\nA: No. Rationale: The type of pathogen does not influence death in surgical ICU patients with VAP diagnosed rigorously and treated by a rotational antibiotic.
Q: Is human parvovirus B19 infection followed by inflammatory joint disease during long term follow-up . A retrospective study of 54 patients?\nA: No. Rationale: None of the 54 patients with recent B19 infection developed chronic arthritis.
Q: Does recent consumption of a large meal affect measurements of lung function?\nA: No. Rationale: Common measures of lung function are not affected by the prior consumption of a large meal and it is unnecessary to advise.
Q: Is delayed Calcium Normalization After Presumed Curative Parathyroidectomy Associated with the Development of Persistent or Recurrent Primary Hyperparathyroidism?\nA: No. Rationale: After presumed curative parathyroidectomy, nearly 10 % of patients had transiently persistent hypercalcemia.
Q: Do novel biomarkers correlate with severity of vascular stiffness in CKD patients with severe co-morbid disease?\nA: No. Rationale: In this cohort of patients with chronic kidney disease and diabetes and/or heart disease, we were unable to demonstrate that select biomarkers.
Q: Does the sex of acute stroke patients influence the effectiveness of rt-PA?\nA: No. Rationale: In our study; sex is not a significant predictor of recanalization rate, time to recanalization or 3-month outcome in stroke patients following.
Q: Do telephone contacts improve adherence to niacin or bile acid sequestrant therapy?\nA: No. Rationale: Telephone contacts do not improve either adherence or tolerance to niacin or BAS.
Q: Do subhypnotic doses of propofol relieve pruritus induced by intrathecal morphine after cesarean section?\nA: No. Rationale: Pruritus is a common and bothersome side effect of neuraxial opioids after cesarean section.
Q: Do high serum luteinizing hormone and testosterone concentrations predict pregnancy outcome in women with recurrent miscarriage?\nA: No. Rationale: The analysis of this large cohort of women with recurrent miscarriage demonstrates that prepregnancy Day 8 serum LH and T concentrations, and.
Q: Is there a need for pelvic CT scan in cases of renal cell carcinoma?\nA: No. Rationale: Pelvic CT does not offer additional information in the vast majority of cases with RCC and should be performed selectively.
Q: Is mCAT required for in vitro polyketide synthesis in a minimal actinorhodin polyketide synthase from Streptomyces coelicolor?\nA: No. Rationale: The rate of polyketide biosynthesis is dictated by the ratio of holo-ACP to KS and CLF, as well as by the total.
Q: Does thimerosal exposure in infants and developmental disorders : a retrospective cohort study in the United kingdom support a causal association?\nA: No. Rationale: With the possible exception of tics, there was no evidence that thimerosal exposure via DTP/DT vaccines causes neurodevelopmental disorders.
Q: Does minimal access major surgery in the newborn hurt less?\nA: No. Rationale: Minimal access surgery for the repair of esophageal atresia or congenital diaphragmatic hernia is not associated with less cumulative opioid doses.
Q: Is lymphocytic gastritis associated with active Helicobacter pylori infection?\nA: No. Rationale: LG is not a distinct clinicopathologic entity, but a morphologic pattern of gastric injury that can be secondary to a variety of.
Q: Does the incidence and severity of gastric ulceration increase in overtrained Standardbred horses?\nA: No. Rationale: Experimentally-induced overtraining does not increase the incidence of gastric ulceration in normally fed Standardbred horses and detraining appears to reduce gastric ulceration.
Q: Does coronary stenting improve the long-term cardiovascular outcome of patients with mild to moderate renal insufficiency?\nA: No. Rationale: The late major adverse cardiac events, after successful coronary stenting, is increased in patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate < 60.
Q: Does end-expiratory occlusion manoeuvre accurately predict fluid responsiveness in the operating theatre?\nA: No. Rationale: ΔSV(EEO) and ΔE'(CO₂) were unable to accurately predict fluid responsiveness during surgery.
Q: Do human platelets pathogen reduced with riboflavin and ultraviolet light cause acute lung injury in a two-event SCID mouse model?\nA: No. Rationale: Mirasol PRT treatment induced PLT activation and reduced in vivo recovery in a SCID mouse model of transfusion.
Q: Do two years of growth hormone treatment in adults with Prader-Willi syndrome improve the low BMD?\nA: No. Rationale: Adult PWS subjects, especially the men, have low bone mass that was not improved with GH treatment for 2 years.
Q: Are higher rates of hemolysis associated with albuminuria in Jamaicans with sickle cell disease?\nA: No. Rationale: Renal disease, as evidenced by excretion of increased amounts of albumin in urine due to a glomerulopathy, is a common end-organ complication.
Q: Is signalling through neutrophil Fc gamma RIII , Fc gamma RII , and CD59 impaired in active rheumatoid arthritis?\nA: No. Rationale: Contrary to previous reports, these results demonstrate that Ca2+ signalling responses of cross linked Fc receptors in blood neutrophils from patients with.
Q: Does tramadol modify the Bispectral Index during anaesthesia with sevoflurane and remifentanil?\nA: No. Rationale: Tramadol, given with ketorolac to prevent postoperative pain, during anaesthesia maintained with sevoflurane and remifentanil at BIS between 40 and 50, does.
Q: Does serum sodium based modification of the MELD improve prediction of outcome in acute liver failure?\nA: No. Rationale: We validated the prognostic value of MELD-Na and UKELD in ALF.
Q: Does metformin alter the risk of lung cancer : a case-control analysis?\nA: No. Rationale: Metformin did not decrease the risk of lung cancer.
Q: Is the Toxin-Producing Pathobiont Klebsiella oxytoca Associated with Flares of Inflammatory Bowel Diseases?\nA: No. Rationale: Our data demonstrate that toxin (tilivalline)-producing K.
Q: Does mK-801 protect against hypoxic-ischemic brain injury in piglets?\nA: No. Rationale: MK-801, at a dose of 3 mg/kg, causes neurological dysfunction in piglets lasting at least 72 hours, but neither causes brain damage.
Q: Do poor-responder patients benefit from intracytoplasmic morphologically selected sperm injection?\nA: No. Rationale: Our results suggest that unselected couples undergoing ICSI that present with poor ovarian response to controlled ovarian stimulation do not benefit from.
Q: Does dexmedetomidine interfere with meta-iodobenzylguanidine ( MIBG ) uptake at clinically relevant concentrations?\nA: No. Rationale: We conclude that dexmedetomidine will not interfere with therapeutic [.
Q: Seem aryl hydrocarbon receptor interacting protein mutations to associate with familial non-medullary thyroid cancer?\nA: No. Rationale: Our study indicates that germline AIP mutations are rare or do not exist in familial NMTC.
Q: Is increased rate of psychosis among African-Caribbeans in Britain due to an excess of pregnancy and birth complications?\nA: No. Rationale: The increased rate of psychotic illness that has been reported among the African-Caribbean population in Britain is not due to an increased.
Q: Does cortical hypertrophy with a short , curved uncemented hip stem have any clinical impact during early follow-up?\nA: No. Rationale: The survival rate and both clinical and the radiographic outcome confirm the encouraging results for short, curved uncemented stems.
Q: Does use of the 2-μm continuous wave thulium laser for the resection of oral squamous cell carcinomas impair pathological assessment?\nA: No. Rationale: This study shows resections done by TL do not impair pathological assessment when compared to MO resections.
Q: Does nitric oxide play a major role in the regulation of systemic hemodynamic responses to acute normovolemic hemodilution?\nA: No. Rationale: Our results suggest that nitric oxide does not play a major role in mediation or modulation of the systemic vascular responses to.
Q: Are half of coronary patients instructed how to respond to symptoms of a heart attack?\nA: No. Rationale: About half of patients after hospitalization due to CAD are not instructed how to respond to heart attack symptoms.
Q: Is weight reduction a major reason for improvement in rheumatoid arthritis from lacto-vegetarian , vegan or Mediterranean diets?\nA: No. Rationale: Body weight reduction did not significantly contribute to the improvement in rheumatoid arthritis when eating lacto-vegetarian, vegan or Mediterranean diets.
Q: Do modifications to the cavopulmonary anastomosis eliminate early sinus node dysfunction?\nA: No. Rationale: Avoidance of surgery near the sinus node has no discernible effect on the development of early sinus node dysfunction.
Q: Do statins prevent acute organ failure in ventilated ICU patients : single-centre retrospective cohort study?\nA: No. Rationale: Concurrent statin therapy does not appear to protect against the development of new acute organ failure in critically ill, ventilated patients.
Q: Are polymorphisms of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase a risk factor for Kawasaki disease in the Korean population?\nA: No. Rationale: The genetic distribution of the MTHFR SNPs (rs2274976, rs1801131, and rs1801133) was not different in the KD group compared to the control.
Q: Does 17ss oestradiol attenuate the response to angiotensin I and II during long term therapy in postmenopausal women?\nA: No. Rationale: This study does not support the idea that ERT might exert a cardioprotective effect through inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system.
Q: Do plasma concentrations of arginine and asymmetric dimethylarginine reflect their intracellular concentrations in peripheral blood mononuclear cells?\nA: No. Rationale: In healthy individuals, plasma levels of arginine, MMA, ADMA, and SDMA poorly reflect their intracellular levels in PBMC.
Q: Is off-label thrombolysis associated with poor outcome in patients with stroke?\nA: No. Rationale: Off-license thrombolysis was not associated with poorer clinical outcome, except for age >80 years, nor with increased rates of symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage.
Q: Is bone mineral density significantly reduced in adult patients on low-dose glucocorticoid replacement therapy?\nA: No. Rationale: Adult PAI and CAH patients on low glucocorticoid doses showed normal BMD within the normal reference range.
Q: Do plasma trough levels of mycophenolic acid correlate with efficacy and safety of mycophenolate mofetil in psoriasis?\nA: No. Rationale: The monitoring of MPA trough levels with EMIT appears to be a poor predictor of efficacy or toxicity.
Q: Does prolonged sedation with propofol in the rat result in sleep deprivation?\nA: No. Rationale: Prolonged sedation in the Intensive Care Unit may alter the restorative effects of naturally occurring sleep.
Q: Are sports medicine journals relevant and applicable to practitioners and athletes?\nA: No. Rationale: There is a dearth of studies addressing diagnostic and treatment interventions in the sports medicine literature.
Q: Do age , comorbidity and hypertensive co-medication affect cardiovascular tolerability of 10 mg alfuzosin once daily?\nA: No. Rationale: Alfuzosin (10 mg) OD is effective and well tolerated, and it has marginal effects on blood pressure, including in elderly patients and.
Q: Are variations in the use of carotid endarterectomy explained by population Need?\nA: No. Rationale: use of CEA varies widely, depending on area of residence.
Q: Is arch form influenced by sagittal molar relationship or Bolton tooth-size discrepancy?\nA: No. Rationale: Arch form in a Saudi patient group is independent of gender, sagittal molar relationship, and Bolton discrepancy.
Q: Are hyperandrogenism and phenotypes of polycystic ovary syndrome associated with differences in obstetric outcomes?\nA: No. Rationale: Obstetric outcomes were comparable in women with different PCOS phenotypes.
Q: Is prehypertension associated with all-cause mortality : a systematic review and meta-analysis of prospective studies?\nA: No. Rationale: From the best available prospective data, prehypertension was not associated with all-cause mortality.
Q: Does graft diameter influence primary stability of ulnar collateral ligament reconstruction of the elbow?\nA: No. Rationale: This study did not prove that a thicker graft yielded more resistance to valgus moments when using the docking technique.
Q: Is the uniform chest compression depth of 50 mm or greater recommended by current guidelines appropriate for all adults?\nA: No. Rationale: It is not appropriate that the current CC depth (≥50 mm), expressed only as absolute measurement without a fraction of the depth.
Q: Vaginal dose assessment in image-guided brachytherapy for cervical cancer: Can we really rely on dose-point evaluation?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: The doses evaluated at PIBS points are not impacted by intrafractional movements.
Q: Antral follicle assessment as a tool for predicting outcome in IVF--is it a better predictor than age and FSH?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: In vitro fertilization outcome is strongly correlated with both maternal ages, basal cycle, day 3 follicle, stimulated hormone, and antral follicle assessment.
Q: Does solid culture for tuberculosis influence clinical decision making in India?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Using solid culture, 150 cultures need to be tested for one treatment modification and 30 for DST.
Q: Are home sampling kits for sexually transmitted infections acceptable among men who have sex with men?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: The widespread acceptability of using HSKs for the diagnosis of STIs could have important public health impacts in terms of earlier diagnosis.
Q: Are the elderly with oropharyngeal carcinoma undertreated?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Proportionally fewer elderly patients with OPSCC are being treated than younger individuals.
Q: Human papillomavirus and pterygium. Is the virus a risk factor?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: The low presence of HPV DNA in pterygia does not support the hypothesis that HPV is involved in the development of pterygia.
Q: Does use of hydrophilic guidewires significantly improve technical success rates of peripheral PTA?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: In summary, we report an overall improvement and high technical success rate for peripherial PTA.
Q: The FOOTSTEP self-management foot care programme: are rheumatoid arthritis patients physically able to participate?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Just over half the patients in this present cohort may be physically able to undertake some aspects of self-managed foot care, including.
Q: Are there mental health differences between francophone and non-francophone populations in manitoba?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: The discrepancy in how Francophones view their mental health and their rates of diagnosed mental disorders may be related to health seeking.
Q: Empiric treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infection with fluoroquinolones in older women in Israel: another lost treatment option?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Physicians who opt to treat UTI in postmenopausal women empirically should consider prescribing drugs other than fluoroquinolones.
Q: Does the familial transmission of drinking patterns persist into young adulthood?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: The association between familial drinking and offspring drinking in young adulthood exhibits clear non-linear trends.
Q: Parasacral sciatic nerve block: does the elicited motor response predict the success rate?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Eliciting a tibial motor response predicts a higher success rate than eliciting a peroneal motor response with parasacral sciatic nerve block.
Q: Women with synchronous primary cancers of the endometrium and ovary: do they have Lynch syndrome?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Overall, 7% of women in our cohort met either clinical or molecular criteria for Lynch syndrome.
Q: Could different follow-up modalities play a role in the diagnosis of asymptomatic endometrial cancer relapses?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Follow-up after endometrial cancer treatment varies in Italy.
Q: Do emergency medical services professionals think they should participate in disease prevention?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: The majority of EMS professionals thought that they should participate in disease and injury prevention programs.
Q: Is determination between complete and incomplete traumatic spinal cord injury clinically relevant?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Out of the four sacral sparing criteria, the acute phase anal sensory score measurements do not contribute significantly to the prognosis of.
Q: Is Panton-Valentine leucocidin associated with the pathogenesis of Staphylococcus aureus bacteraemia in the UK?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: We found that 1.6% of S.
Q: Health care for immigrants in Europe: is there still consensus among country experts about principles of good practice?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Experts across Europe asserted the right to culturally sensitive health care for all immigrants.
Q: Are normally sighted, visually impaired, and blind pedestrians accurate and reliable at making street crossing decisions?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Our data suggested that visually impaired pedestrians can make accurate and reliable street crossing decisions like those of normally sighted pedestrians.
Q: Is the international normalised ratio (INR) reliable?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: No technical problems associated with INR testing within primary care were uncovered.
Q: Are we seeing the effects of public awareness campaigns?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: The proportion of thin 0-1 mm melanomas presenting in South West England has significantly increased from 2003 to 2012.
Q: Is there a role for leukocyte and CRP measurements in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis in the elderly?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Although elevated leukocyte count and CRP value cannot effectively establish the diagnosis of acute appendicitis in the elderly, unelevated values exclude it.
Q: Young-Burgess classification of pelvic ring fractures: does it predict mortality, transfusion requirements, and non-orthopaedic injuries?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: The Young-Burgess system is useful for predicting transfusion requirements.
Q: Is the Hawkins sign able to predict necrosis in fractures of the neck of the astragalus?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: A positive Hawkins sign rules out that the fractured talus has developed avascular necrosis, but its absence does not confirm it.
Q: Do Surrogates of Injury Severity Influence the Occurrence of Heterotopic Ossification in Fractures of the Acetabulum?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Surrogates of injury severity, including days in the ICU and non-ICU hospital LOS>10 days, were associated with the development of HO in.
Q: Does responsibility affect the public's valuation of health care interventions?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Our results suggest that people do not attach a simple fixed premium to "safety-related" interventions but that preferences depend more subtly on.
Q: Can patients be anticoagulated after intracerebral hemorrhage?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Survivors of lobar ICH with atrial fibrillation should not be offered long-term anticoagulation.
Q: Should direct mesocolon invasion be included in T4 for the staging of gastric cancer?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Mesocolon invasion should be included in T4 for the staging of gastric cancer.
Q: Continuation of pregnancy after antenatal corticosteroid administration: opportunity for rescue?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Rescue AC may apply to only 18% of cases, and we identified subsets of more likely candidates.
Q: Are Biochemical Markers of Bone Turnover Representative of Bone Histomorphometry in 370 Postmenopausal Women?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Bone turnover markers were significantly but modestly associated with bone turnover parameters measured in iliac cancellous bone.
Q: Actinobaculum schaalii, a cause of urinary tract infections in children?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Actinobaculum schaalii is CO(2)-dependent.
Q: Are tuberculosis patients adherent to prescribed treatments in China?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Despite recent efforts, a large proportion of newly confirmed TB patients could not adhere to standard TB treatment, and patients' lost to.
Q: Is oncoplastic surgery a contraindication for accelerated partial breast radiation using the interstitial multicatheter brachytherapy method?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: These preliminary results suggest the feasibility of multicatheter APBI after oncoplastic breast-conserving surgery in selected low-risk breast cancer patients; however, special attention.
Q: Expression of c-kit protooncogen in hepatitis B virus-induced chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma: has it a diagnostic role?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: C-kit positivity was observed in the mitotic, proliferating and also dysplastic hepatic cells.
Q: Can implant retention be recommended for treatment of infected TKA?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Although initial infection control rate was substantially lower in the retention group than the removal group, final results were comparable at latest.
Q: Are opioid dependence and methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) documented in the medical record?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Among patients receiving MMT and medical care at different sites, documentation of opioid dependence and MMT in the medical record occurs for.
Q: Does aerobic fitness influence microvascular function in healthy adults at risk of developing Type 2 diabetes?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: In this 'at-risk' group with skin microvascular dysfunction maximal oxygen uptake was not reduced compared with healthy controls.
Q: Standardizing care in medical oncology: are Web-based systems the answer?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Although the provision of high-quality evidence-based resources, electronic or otherwise, is essential for standardizing care and improving patient outcomes, the authors' findings.
Q: Does vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia have the same evolution as cervical intraepithelial neoplasia?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: These data suggest that CIN and VAIN may have some common features in certain cases, i.e., if an HPV infection is proved.
Q: Treatment of contralateral hydrocele in neonatal testicular torsion: Is less more?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: We have demonstrated that approaching a contralateral hydrocele in cases of neonatal testicular torsion solely through a scrotal incision is safe and.
Q: Counter sampling combined with medical provider education: do they alter prescribing behavior?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Education by pharmacists, combined with access to counter samples, may or may not have an effect on medical provider prescribing, depending on.
Q: Storage of vaccines in the community: weak link in the cold chain?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Vaccines were exposed to temperatures that may reduce their potency.
Q: Does shaving the incision site increase the infection rate after spinal surgery?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: The shaving of the incision site immediately before spinal surgery may increase the rate of postoperative infection.
Q: Detailed analysis of sputum and systemic inflammation in asthma phenotypes: are paucigranulocytic asthmatics really non-inflammatory?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: This study demonstrates that a significant eosinophilic inflammation is present across all categories of asthma, and that paucigranulocytic asthma may be seen.
Q: Sternal fracture in growing children : A rare and often overlooked fracture?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Isolated sternal fractures in childhood are often due to typical age-related traumatic incidents.
Q: Is a patient's self-reported health-related quality of life a prognostic factor for survival in non-small-cell lung cancer patients?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: The results suggest that patients' self-reported HRQOL provide independent prognostic information for survival.
Q: Is prophylactic fixation a cost-effective method to prevent a future contralateral fragility hip fracture?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: : Prophylactic fixation with a cephalomedullary nail was not found to be cost-effective for the average older woman who sustained a hip.
Q: Does obstructive sleep apnea affect aerobic fitness?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Overall, in a US Air Force population, OSA does not predict a decrease in aerobic fitness as measured by cycle ergometry.
Q: Can a practicing surgeon detect early lymphedema reliably?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: An increase of 5% in circumference measurements identified the most potential lymphedema cases compared with an academic trial.
Q: Does body mass index (BMI) influence morbidity and long-term survival in gastric cancer patients after gastrectomy?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: The body mass index is one of the prognostic factors of stage 2 and stage 3a gastric cancer.
Q: Cycloplegic autorefraction in young adults: is it mandatory?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Young hypermetropic adults possessed +1 to +2 D of latent hypermetropia.
Q: Are bipolar disorders underdiagnosed in patients with depressive episodes?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: The diagnosis of BD in patients with MDE depends strongly on the method and criteria employed.
Q: HIF1A as a major vascular endothelial growth factor regulator: do its polymorphisms have an association with age-related macular degeneration?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: No associations appeared between HIF1A SNPs and AMD, which were studied here for the first time; however, polymorphism rs1061170 of the CFH.
Q: Does the severity of obstructive sleep apnea predict patients requiring high continuous positive airway pressure?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Severe OSA patients are much more likely to need high CPAP levels.
Q: Is perforation of the appendix a risk factor for tubal infertility and ectopic pregnancy?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: The methodologic weaknesses of the studies do not permit acceptance of increased risk of tubal pregnancy or infertility as a consequence of.
Q: Does HER2 immunoreactivity provide prognostic information in locally advanced urothelial carcinoma patients receiving adjuvant M-VEC chemotherapy?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: HER2 immunoreactivity might have a limited prognostic value for advanced urothelial carcinoma patients with adjuvant M-VEC.
Q: Do elderly patients call 911 when presented with clinical scenarios suggestive of acute stroke?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: These results suggest the need to provide interventions that are specifically designed to increase awareness of potential stroke signs and symptoms and.
Q: "Would a man smell a rose then throw it away?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Jordanian men perceive themselves as having a vital role in supporting, guiding and encouraging their wives to follow breast cancer early detection.
Q: BCRABL transcript detection by quantitative real-time PCR : are correlated results possible from homebrew assays?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: These results suggest that quantitative real-time PCR assays for BCRABL detection can be comparable between laboratories despite significant differences in methodologies if.
Q: Do French lay people and health professionals find it acceptable to breach confidentiality to protect a patient's wife from a sexually transmitted disease?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Most people in France are influenced by situational factors when deciding if a physician should breach confidentiality to protect the spouse of.
Q: Does accompanying metabolic syndrome contribute to heart dimensions in hypertensive patients?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Left ventricular dimensions are not influenced by MetS.
Q: Does perspective-taking increase patient satisfaction in medical encounters?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Perspective-taking increased patient satisfaction in all three studies, across medical schools, clinical disciplines, and racially diverse students and SPs.
Q: Can calprotectin predict relapse risk in inflammatory bowel disease?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Measuring calprotectin may help to identify UC and colonic CD patients at higher risk of clinical relapse.
Q: Artefacts in 24-h pharyngeal and oesophageal pH monitoring: is simplification of pH data analysis feasible?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Leaving out the period of intake of meals and beverages from the raw pH data might be the second best test after.
Q: Are neighbourhood social capital and availability of sports facilities related to sports participation among Dutch adolescents?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: The results of this study indicate that leisure time sports participation is associated with levels of NSC, but not with availability of.
Q: Can Ambu self-inflating bag and Neopuff infant resuscitator provide adequate and safe manual inflations for infants up to 10 kg weight?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: The Ambu SIB was able to accurately deliver targeted pressures across all three models from preterm to infant.
Q: Combining process indicators to evaluate quality of care for surgical patients with colorectal cancer: are scores consistent with short-term outcome?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: For individual patients, a high score on the composite measures based on process indicators is not associated with better short-term outcome.
Q: Does timing of initial surfactant treatment make a difference in rates of chronic lung disease or mortality in premature infants?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Early surfactant administration is associated with shorter duration of ventilation but does not appear to be significantly protective against CLD/mortality among premature.
Q: Should chest wall irradiation be included after mastectomy and negative node breast cancer?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Post-mastectomy radiotherapy should be discussed for a sub-group of node-negative patients with predictors factors of local failure such as age<or = 40.
Q: 30-Day and 1-year mortality in emergency general surgery laparotomies: an area of concern and need for improvement?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Emergency laparotomy carries a high rate of mortality, especially in those over the age of 70 years, and more needs to be.
Q: Do we need imaging to diagnose appendicitis in children?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Clinical assessment is the key to diagnose appendicitis.
Q: Is vitamin D insufficiency or deficiency related to the development of osteochondritis dissecans?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: These first data show that a vitamin D3 deficiency rather than an insufficiency may be involved in the development of OCD lesions.
Q: Outcome Feedback within Emergency Medicine Training Programs: An Opportunity to Apply the Theory of Deliberate Practice?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: While Canadian EM training programs do not mandate follow-up, it is performed electively by the majority of residents surveyed.
Q: Rectal cancer threatening or affecting the prostatic plane: is partial prostatectomy oncologically adequate?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Preoperative chemoradiation is mandatory in male patients with a threatened or affected anterior circumferential margin on preoperative MRI.
Q: The influence of atmospheric pressure on aortic aneurysm rupture--is the diameter of the aneurysm important?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: The results of this study do not support the hypothesis that there is a direct link between atmospheric pressure values and abdominal.
Q: Is irritable bowel syndrome a diagnosis of exclusion?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Most community providers believe IBS is a diagnosis of exclusion; this belief is associated with increased resource use.
Q: Can APC mutation analysis contribute to therapeutic decisions in familial adenomatous polyposis?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: As age at manifestation and course of the disease may be rather variable, even in carriers of identical germline mutations, therapeutic decisions.
Q: Is the processing of affective prosody influenced by spatial attention?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Emotional prosody, therefore, seems to be partially processed outside the focus of spatial attention.
Q: Does managed care enable more low income persons to identify a usual source of care?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Having a usual physician can be an effective tool in improving access to care for low-income populations, although it is most effective.
Q: Cutaneous melanoma in a multiethnic population: is this a different disease?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: In a multiethnic population, cutaneous melanoma in nonwhite persons is unusual but not rare.
Q: Does microbial contamination influence the success of the hematopoietic cell transplantation outcomes?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: The use of contaminated products with antibiotic prophylaxis may be safe in terms of the first day of fever, duration of fever.
Q: Does limb-salvage surgery offer patients better quality of life and functional capacity than amputation?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: These data suggest that limb-salvage surgery offers better gait efficiency and return to normal living compared with above-knee amputation, but does not.
Q: Is there a role for endothelin-1 in the hemodynamic changes during hemodialysis?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Altered ET-1 levels may be involved in the pathogenesis of rebound hypertension and hypotension during HD.
Q: Does fluoridation reduce the use of dental services among adults?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Among adults aged 20 to 34 years with private dental insurance, fluoridation reduces oral disease but may or may not reduce use.
Q: Is there a uniform basal endometrial gene expression profile during the implantation window in women who became pregnant in a subsequent ICSI cycle?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Our data suggest that very few genes, which change their expression level during the WOI, show a quantitative homogeneous expression in endometrially-receptive.
Q: Bactericidal activity of 3 cutaneous/mucosal antiseptic solutions in the presence of interfering substances: Improvement of the NF EN 13727 European Standard?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: Adapting the NF EN 13727 standard allowed assessing the 3 tested solutions: only CB was bactericidal in dirty conditions.
Q: Is it possible to stop treatment with nucleos(t)ide analogs in patients with e-antigen negative chronic hepatitis B?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: The results suggest that NA treatment can be stopped in selected patients with CHB as long as they are not cirrhotic, have.
Q: Can the Internet be used to improve sexual health awareness in web-wise young people?\nA: Uncertain. Rationale: The Internet would be a practical and accessible way of delivering sexual health education to young people, particularly if it is incorporated.
Q: Does addition of aprotinin to organ preservation solutions decrease lung reperfusion injury?\nA: Yes. Rationale: The addition of aprotinin to EC and UW solutions increases endothelial cell viability in hypoxic cold storage conditions.
Q: Are increased body fat percentage and physical inactivity independent predictors of gestational diabetes mellitus in South Asian women?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Body fat %, physical inactivity and, possibly, diet quality are important modifiable risk factors for GDM.
Q: Is interleukin-18 high in the serum of IVF pregnancies with ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Both pre-ovulatory FF and serum levels of IL-18 correlate with the number of retrieved oocytes.
Q: Do survivin-specific CD4+ T cells are decreased in patients with survivin-positive myeloma?\nA: Yes. Rationale: We have, for the first time, quantified the circulating CD4+CD25- precursor frequency against survivin and demonstrated this is lower in myeloma patients.
Q: Does low tidal volume ventilation preconditioning ameliorate lipopolysaccharide-induced acute lung injury in rats?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Low tidal volume ventilation preconditioning can attenuate release of pulmonary pro-inflammatory cytokines and decrease the AI induced by severe sepsis.
Q: Does comprehensive evaluation of genetic variation in S100A7 suggest an association with the occurrence of allergic rhinitis?\nA: Yes. Rationale: This is the first study describing genetic variation, associated with allergy, in S100A7.
Q: Does radiofrequency application to the posteroseptal region alter retrograde accessory pathway activation?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Radiofrequency applications to the posteroseptal region can markedly alter retrograde atrial activation, thereby confounding further mapping of the accessory pathway.
Q: Is clustering of comorbidities related to age and sex and impacts clinical outcome in myelodysplastic syndromes?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Comorbidities impact clinical outcome in elderly patients with MDS.
Q: Does dexamethasone inhibit U937 cell adhesion via the down-regulation of ROCK1 activity?\nA: Yes. Rationale: DEX interferes with the adhesion function of U937 cells through the inhibition of ROCK1 activity.
Q: Is a novel ritonavir paediatric powder formulation bioequivalent to ritonavir oral solution with a similar food effect?\nA: Yes. Rationale: The novel ritonavir powder formulation is bioequivalent to marketed ritonavir oral solution under moderate-fat conditions with a similar effect of meals.
Q: Is hemoglobin a1c positively correlated with framingham risk score in older , apparently healthy nondiabetic korean adults?\nA: Yes. Rationale: HbA1c levels were positively correlated with FRS in older, apparently healthy nondiabetic Korean adults.
Q: Is the Fms-like tyrosine kinase 3 ligand , a mediator of B cell survival , also a marker of lymphoma in primary Sjögren 's syndrome?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Serum levels of Flt-3L are elevated in patients with primary SS and correlate with abnormal B cell distribution.
Q: Do regulatory T cells ameliorate hyperhomocysteinaemia-accelerated atherosclerosis in apoE-/- mice?\nA: Yes. Rationale: HHcy suppresses the function of Tregs, which may be responsible for HHcy-accelerated atherosclerosis in apoE-/- mice.
Q: Is polytetrafluoroethylene neochordae noninferior to leaflet resection in repair of isolated posterior mitral leaflet prolapse : a multicentre study?\nA: Yes. Rationale: ePTFE neochordae is noninferior to resection repair for posterior mitral leaflet prolapse.
Q: Are cognitive performance and functional status the major factors predicting survival of centenarians in Poland?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Cognitive and functional performances are predictors of survival in centenarians.
Q: Does screening of the RET gene of Vietnamese Hirschsprung patients identify 2 novel missense mutations?\nA: Yes. Rationale: The identification of novel deleterious variants together with the fact RET RVs are virtually unique to HSCR patients indicates that the RET.
Q: Is jNK critical for the development of Candida albicans-induced vascular lesions in a mouse model of Kawasaki disease?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Our findings suggest that JNK is crucial for the development of CAWE-induced vascular lesions in mice, and potentially represents a novel therapeutic.
Q: Do low-affinity CCK-1 receptors inhibit bombesin-stimulated secretion in rat pancreatic acini -- implication of the actin cytoskeleton?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Inhibitory mechanisms triggered by low-affinity CCK-1 receptors interrupt enzyme secretion from pancreatic acini at late stages in the signal transduction cascades since.
Q: Does cysteinyl leukotriene receptor antagonist montelukast ameliorate acute lung injury following haemorrhagic shock in rats?\nA: Yes. Rationale: The results of the present study reveal that montelukast may ameliorate lung injury in shocked rats by interfering with inflammatory and oxidative.
Q: Is thrombolysis in acute ischemic stroke associated with lower long-term hospital bed day use : A nationwide propensity score-matched follow-up study?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Thrombolysis in ischemic stroke was associated with lower long-term hospital bed day use and decreased risk of readmission due to pneumonia.
Q: Does large tidal volume mechanical ventilation induce vascular dysfunction in rats?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Injurious mechanical ventilation in normal rats is associated with vascular dysfunction characterized by decreased relaxation to an endothelium-dependent vasodilator and to a.
Q: Do treatment of a resistant port-wine stain with a new variable pulse-duration pulsed-dye laser?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Vessel heterogeneity may require changing pulse durations once a port-wine stain or a portion of a port-wine stain becomes refractory to given.
Q: Is both endothelium-dependent and endothelium-independent function impaired in patients with angina pectoris and normal coronary angiograms?\nA: Yes. Rationale: These findings demonstrate that both endothelium-dependent and endothelium-independent dilatation of the coronary microvasculature is impaired in syndrome X.
Q: Do predictors of outcome in patients with ( sub ) acute low back pain differ across treatment groups?\nA: Yes. Rationale: As we found two different profiles, our approach may contribute to the important question: what intervention works for whom?.
Q: Nasal fractures:  is closed reduction satisfying?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Closed reduction is an easy and sufficient treatment for nasal fractures, especially for mild nasal fractures.
Q: Are isolated tumor cells in stage I & II colon cancer patients associated with significantly worse disease-free and overall survival?\nA: Yes. Rationale: This study provides compelling evidence that ITC in stage I & II colon cancer patients are associated with significantly worse disease-free and.
Q: Are sT-segment abnormalities and premature complexes predictors of new-onset atrial fibrillation : the Niigata preventive medicine study?\nA: Yes. Rationale: ST-segment abnormality and comparably high-frequency premature complexes were each associated with increased risk for the development of AF.
Q: Does epigallocatechin Gallate extend the Therapeutic Window of Recombinant Tissue Plasminogen Activator Treatment in Ischemic Rats?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Our study has demonstrated for the first time in vivo results supporting the potential of EGCG to be coadministered with rt-PA, to.
Q: Are platelet contractile force ( PCF ) and clot elastic modulus ( CEM ) elevated in diabetic patients with chest pain?\nA: Yes. Rationale: PCF and CEM are elevated in diabetic chest pain patients.
Q: Does laparoscopic endometrioma resection increase peri-implantation endometrial HOXA-10 and HOXA-11 mRNA expression?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Laparoscopic endometrioma resection increases peri-implantation endometrial HOXA-10 and HOXA-11 mRNA expression, suggesting an improvement in endometrial receptivity.
Q: Is dietary intake of fruits and beta-carotene negatively associated with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis risk in Koreans : a case-control study?\nA: Yes. Rationale: The intake of fruits and beta-carotene decreases the risk of sporadic ALS in this present study.
Q: Does docosahexaenoic acid ameliorate palmitate-induced lipid accumulation and inflammation through repressing NLRC4 inflammasome activation in HepG2 cells?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Our findings indicate DHA attenuates PA-induced lipid accumulation and inflammation through suppressing NLRC4 inflammasome activation, caspase-1 activation and IL-1β cleavage.
Q: Does interleukin-6 play an essential role in hypoxia-inducible factor 2α-induced experimental osteoarthritic cartilage destruction in mice?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Our findings indicate that IL-6 acts as a crucial mediator of HIF-2α-induced experimental OA cartilage destruction in mice via regulation of Mmp3.
Q: Is aHIF but not HIF-1alpha transcript a poor prognostic marker in human breast cancer?\nA: Yes. Rationale: In our series of breast cancer patients, aHIF, and not HIF-1alpha transcript, is a marker of poor prognosis.
Q: Is predisposition to nephropathy in Polynesians associated with family history of renal disease , not diabetes mellitus?\nA: Yes. Rationale: These data suggest that among Polynesians there is no specific inherited tendency to diabetic nephropathy per se.
Q: Are hLA alleles associated with postherpetic neuralgia but not with herpes zoster?\nA: Yes. Rationale: The allele frequencies of HLA-A*3303, B*4403, and DRB1*1302 in PHN(+) patients were significantly higher than those in Japanese controls (P=0.00007, P=0.000002, and.
Q: Do mitochondrial Complexes I and II Are More Susceptible to Autophagy Deficiency in Mouse β-Cells?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Impairment of autophagy in pancreatic β-cells suppressed the expression of some mitochondrial respiratory complexes, and may contribute to mitochondrial dysfunction.
Q: Do s-nitrosothiols modulate G protein-coupled receptor signaling in a reversible and highly receptor-specific manner?\nA: Yes. Rationale: These in vitro studies show for the first time in a broader general context that RSNOs are capable of modulating GPCR signaling.
Q: Are breslow thickness , clark index and ulceration associated with sentinel lymph node metastasis in melanoma patients : a cohort analysis of 612 patients?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Breslow thickness, Clark index and ulceration are independent predictors of a SLN metastasis.
Q: Is renalase , a novel regulator of blood pressure , predicted by kidney function in renal transplant recipients?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Renalase is highly elevated in kidney transplant recipients, predominantly dependent on kidney function, which deteriorates with time after kidney transplantation and age.
Q: Is the Patient Goal Priority Questionnaire moderately reproducible in people with persistent musculoskeletal pain?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Varying item content and a small, heterogeneous sample possibly increased variation and the standard error of measurements.
Q: Does diet supplementation with iron augment brain oxidative stress status in a rat model of psychological stress?\nA: Yes. Rationale: These results demonstrated that iron overload augments brain oxidative stress status and aggravates the decrease of apparent iron absorption in a rat.
Q: Is remote liver injury attenuated by adenovirus-mediated gene transfer of heme oxygenase-1 during the systemic inflammatory response syndrome?\nA: Yes. Rationale: These data indicate that gene transfer of inducible HO is an effective method to protect the liver during SIRS, providing incentive for.
Q: Does prevalence of Extended-Spectrum and Metallo β-Lactamase Production in AmpC β-Lactamase Producing Pseudomonas aeruginosa isolate From Burns?\nA: Yes. Rationale: A high prevalence of multiple β-lactamase production was observed among the AmpC producers (60%), of which the majority co-produced AmpC and MBL.
Q: Is domestic smoke exposure associated with alveolar macrophage particulate load?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Particulate load observed in macrophages is associated with the reported type of biomass fuel exposure.
Q: Is high-frequency gamma activity ( 80-150Hz ) increased in human cortex during selective attention?\nA: Yes. Rationale: There appears to be a strong link between activity in the high-gamma range (80-150 Hz) and selective attention.
Q: Is acid solution a suitable medium for introducing QX-314 into nociceptors through TRPV1 channels to produce sensory-specific analgesic effects?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Acid solution is a suitable medium for introducing QX-314 into nociceptors through TRPV1 channels to produce a sensory-specific analgesic effect.
Q: Do human breast cancer associated fibroblasts exhibit subtype specific gene expression profiles?\nA: Yes. Rationale: These data demonstrate that in addition to the distinct molecular profiles that characterize the neoplastic cells, CAF gene expression is also differentially.
Q: Is [ Platelet count of peripheral blood associated with invasion and metastasis of esophageal carcinoma ]?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Platelet count of peripheral blood might be associated with the development and progression of esophageal cancer.
Q: Is aging a risk factor of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in premenopausal women?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Aging is a risk factor for NAFLD in premenopausal women, independent of weight gain or influence of metabolic syndrome.
Q: Do α-Defensins partially protect human neutrophils against Panton-Valentine leukocidin produced by Staphylococcus aureus?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Panton-Valentine leukocidin (PVL) is a pore-forming toxin produced by Staphylococcus aureus, responsible for neutrophil damage and key player of severe staphylococcal diseases.
Q: Does lactate release during reperfusion predict low cardiac output syndrome after coronary bypass surgery?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Persistent lactate release during reperfusion occurs in a significant proportion of low-risk patients undergoing isolated CABG and is an independent predictor of.
Q: Is major depression in late life associated with both hypo- and hypercortisolemia?\nA: Yes. Rationale: In older people, the association between cortisol and major depression is U-shaped.
Q: Are circulating levels of osteopontin closely related to glomerular filtration rate and cardiovascular risk markers in patients with chronic kidney disease?\nA: Yes. Rationale: There is a close inverse association between GFR and circulating OPN in patients with CKD.
Q: Is number of entry tears associated with aortic growth in type B dissections?\nA: Yes. Rationale: The number of entry tears in ABAD patients detected on the first CTA after clinical presentation is a significant predictor for aortic.
Q: Is magnitude of IFN-gamma production in HIV-1-infected children associated with virus suppression?\nA: Yes. Rationale: The immune restoration of HIV-1-infected children receiving HAART might be related to an increase in IFN-gamma production and a decrease in the.
Q: Does genome-wide analysis reveal novel and discrete functions for tubulin carboxy-terminal tails?\nA: Yes. Rationale: We conclude that α- and β-CTTs play important and largely discrete roles in MT networks.
Q: Does conventional epidemiology underestimate the incidence of asthma and wheeze-a longitudinal population-based study among teenagers?\nA: Yes. Rationale: the size of the incidence of asthma and wheeze during the teen ages was influenced by study design.
Q: Does the PI3K pathway regulate endochondral bone growth through control of hypertrophic chondrocyte differentiation?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Employing an organ culture system of embryonic mouse tibiae and LY294002, a pharmacological inhibitor of PI3K, we show that inhibition of the.
Q: Does co-activation of nAChR and mGluR induce γ oscillation in rat medial septum diagonal band of Broca slices?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Activation of mGluR1 and nAChR is able to program slow or fast network oscillation by altering the intensity of receptor activation, which.
Q: Does factors influencing turning and its relationship with fall in individuals with Parkinson 's disease?\nA: Yes. Rationale: The time needed to complete a 180° turn during the SQT (step/quick turn) test is a good index to differentiate fallers from.
Q: Does case-mix based reimbursement stimulate the development of process-oriented care delivery?\nA: Yes. Rationale: This study demonstrates that hospital management can stimulate the development of care programmes by the adoption of case-mix reimbursement within hospitals' budgeting.
Q: Is malondialdehyde-modified low-density lipoprotein a predictor of cardiac events in patients with stable angina on lipid-lowering therapy after percutaneous coronary intervention using drug-eluting stent?\nA: Yes. Rationale: MDA-LDL was associated with future cardiac events in patients with stable angina that underwent lipid-lowering therapy after DES-PCI.
Q: Does interactome Analysis reveal that Heterochromatin Protein 1γ ( HP1γ ) Is Associated with the DNA Damage Response Pathway?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Our results suggested that HP1γ is functionally active in DNA damage response via protein-protein interaction.
Q: Does cold water immersion of the ankle decrease neuromuscular response of lower limb after inversion movement?\nA: Yes. Rationale: After cold water immersion of the ankle, special care should be taken in activities that require greater neuromuscular control.
Q: Does transient global ischemia specifically modulate visual P300 scalp distribution?\nA: Yes. Rationale: The results are discussed with respect to selective vulnerability of brain tissue to hypoxic-ischemic injury.
Q: Is point of care testing appropriate for National Health Service health check?\nA: Yes. Rationale: There was a minimum mismatch irrespective of the type of risk calculator used.
Q: Does stromal Cell-Derived Factor-1 Alpha be Decreased in Women With Migraine With Aura?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Levels of SDF-1α are decreased in women with MA and are associated with EMPs as a surrogate marker of endothelial dysfunction.
Q: Does biventricular pacing attenuate T-wave alternans and T-wave amplitude compared to other pacing modes?\nA: Yes. Rationale: BV pacing attenuates TWA in tandem with reduced T-wave magnitude.
Q: Is structural integrity of the Greek key motif in βγ-crystallins vital for central eye lens transparency?\nA: Yes. Rationale: When a mutation distorts even one of the four Greek key motifs, the protein readily self-aggregates and precipitates, consistent with the phenotype.
Q: Does doxycycline inhibit TGF-β1-induced extracellular matrix production in nasal polyp-derived fibroblasts?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Doxycycline has an inhibitory effect on TGF-β1-induced myofibroblast differentiation and extracellular matrix production via the p38 and JNK/NF-κB signal pathways in NPDFs.
Q: Does an early inflammatory response to oesophagectomy predict the occurrence of pulmonary complications?\nA: Yes. Rationale: The vast majority of postoperative pulmonary complications after oesophagectomy occur after the 4th postoperative day.
Q: Are epithelial mucin stores increased in the large airways of smokers with airflow obstruction?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Epithelial mucin stores are increased in habitual smokers because of goblet cell hypertrophy and hyperplasia, and the pattern of mucin gene expression.
Q: Is [ Female sex inversely and independently associated with marked ST-segment elevation . A study in patients with ST-segment elevation acute myocardial infarction and early admission ]?\nA: Yes. Rationale: In patients with STEMI, female sex was associated with a lower total ST-segment elevation and there was an independent inverse association with.
Q: Is chloroquine a potent inhibitor of SARS coronavirus infection and spread?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Chloroquine is effective in preventing the spread of SARS CoV in cell culture.
Q: Are striatal dopamine D1 and D2 receptors differentially regulated following buprenorphine or methadone treatment?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Our results demonstrated that methadone and buprenorphine were able to differentially regulate dopamine receptor density depending on the withdrawal period and the.
Q: Does new approach to prevention of staphylococcal infection in surgery?\nA: Yes. Rationale: The treatment of proven carriers of Staphylococcus aureus with mupirocin is an effective method to prevent Staphylococcus aureus nosocomial infections after surgery.
Q: Are long-term protein intake and dietary potential renal acid load associated with bone modeling and remodeling at the proximal radius in healthy children?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Long-term dietary protein intake appears to act anabolically on diaphyseal bone strength during growth, and this may be negated, at least partly.
Q: Does methotrexate inhibit NF-κB activity via long intergenic ( noncoding ) RNA-p21 induction?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Our findings support a model whereby depressed levels of lincRNA-p21 in RA contribute to increased NF-κB activity.
Q: Does inhibition of neutrophil activity improve cardiac function after cardiopulmonary bypass?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Our data provides strong evidence that LIM improves perioperative hemodynamics and cardiac function after CPB by limiting neutrophil activity and inducing accelerated.
Q: Does lipopolysaccharide preconditioning of adipose-derived stem cells improve liver-regenerating activity of the secretome?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Our results suggest that LPS preconditioning effectively stimulates ASCs to produce the secretome beneficial to hepatic regeneration.
Q: Is overexpression of renal tumor antigen associated with tumor invasion and poor prognosis of hepatocellular carcinoma?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Our results suggest that RAGE may be important in tumor invasion and could be a potential predictor for the prognosis of HCC.
Q: Is the LSD1-interacting protein GILP a LITAF domain protein that negatively regulates hypersensitive cell death in Arabidopsis?\nA: Yes. Rationale: These results suggest that the LITAF domain protein AtGILP localizes in the plasma membrane, interacts with AtLSD1, and is involved in negatively.
Q: Do mouldy houses influence symptoms of asthma among atopic individuals?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Mouldy homes adversely influence asthma in asthmatics sensitized to fungi.
Q: Does intraoperative 3-D imaging improve sentinel lymph node biopsy in oral cancer?\nA: Yes. Rationale: FhSPECT is a feasible technology that allows the accurate identification of SLNs in oral cancer.
Q: Is tranexamic acid effective in decreasing postoperative bleeding and transfusions in primary coronary artery bypass operations : a double-blind , randomized , placebo-controlled trial?\nA: Yes. Rationale: In this randomized, placebo-controlled trial, we investigated the efficacy of tranexamic acid to decrease bleeding and blood transfusions after open-heart operations.
Q: Does differential Experience With Men 's and Women 's Health Care visit Between Male and Female Family Medicine Residents?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Both male and female resident physicians acquire more experience with same-gender health care visits during training.
Q: Does habitat composition and connectivity predict bat presence and activity at foraging sites in a large UK conurbation?\nA: Yes. Rationale: Our results suggest that increasing urban density negatively impacts the study species.
